tutorials/ranger-macos-bash.md, before:

# Installing the Ranger file manager on MacOS under Bash

An insanely fast file manager/viewer with Vim key bindings? Sign me up for [Ranger](https://github.com/ranger/ranger)! 
Problem is, I'm not used to installing these character-mode thingies from source on MacOS.  Here are my notes on how 
to get that job done. 

## Executive summary

* Use Python to install the Pip package manager. 
Obviously, skip this step if you already have Pip installed.

I assume you have a recent version of MacOS, which has an acceptable version of Python 
on it.

## Installing Pip

Yes, I know, this is elementary stuff. Hey, I didn't have these steps memorized. I'm a Go programmer, not
a Python guru!

[Pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/) is the Python package manager. To install it, 
drop to the Terminal and run this command:

```bash
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o ~/Downloads/get-pip.py
```

Curl is technically a web browser. The command above gets a copy of the Python source for Pip
and copies it into your MacOS Downloads directory.

* Change to the Downloads directory:

```bash
cd ~/Downloads
```

## Install Pip using Python

* Run Python on the `get-pip.py` program to install Pip:

```bash
python ~/Downloads/get-pip.py --user
```

Pip warns darkly that Python 2.7 has a limited lifespan. You'll see
something like this:

```
DEPRECATION: Python 2.7 will reach the end of its life on January 1st, 2020. Please upgrade your Python as Python 2.7 won't be maintained after that date. A future version of pip will drop support for Python 2.7. More details about Python 2 support in pip, can be found at https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/development/release-process/#python-2-support
Collecting pip
  Downloading https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/00/b6/9cfa56b4081ad13874b0c6f96af8ce16cfbc1cb06bedf8e9164ce5551ec1/pip-19.3.1-py2.py3-none-any.whl (1.4MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 1.4MB 454kB/s 
Installing collected packages: pip
  WARNING: The scripts pip, pip2 and pip2.7 are installed in '/Users/tom/Library/Python/2.7/bin' which is not on PATH.
  Consider adding this directory to PATH or, if you prefer to suppress this warning, use --no-warn-script-location.
Successfully installed pip-19.3.1
```

## Add Python and Pip to the path

Let's get this on the path so you can just type `ranger` to start Ranger when the time comes.
We'll do this by making sure you can run Python scripts like an executable, without 
having to precede the name with `python`. That means appending the Pythong directory
to your `PATH` environment variable.

### Edit .bashrc

* Fire up your favorite editor and load `~/.bashrc`. Here's an example using Vim:

```bash
vim ~/.bashrc
```

* Add this to the bottom of the file:

```bash
export PATH="$PATH:~/Library/Python/2.7/bin"
```

### Run source to export those changes into your current environment

Normally the change you just made wouldn't be available unless you 
exited Terminal and opened up a new instance.

* Save some time by running `source` on the Bash profile you just created:

```bash
source ~/.bashrc
```

Now Pip will be available from the command line.

## Install Ranger

Finally, we can install Ranger itself:

```bash
pip install ranger-fm --user
```

And now you can run it from the command line anywhere on your system:

```bash
ranger
```

[Home](/)

Commit message:

Fix article to use bash_profile not bashrc

tutorials/ranger-macos-bash.md, after:

# Installing the Ranger file manager on MacOS under Bash

An insanely fast file manager/viewer with Vim key bindings? Sign me up for [Ranger](https://github.com/ranger/ranger)! 
Problem is, I'm not used to installing these character-mode thingies from source on MacOS.  Here are my notes on how 
to get that job done. 

## Executive summary

* Use Python to install the Pip package manager. 
Obviously, skip this step if you already have Pip installed.

I assume you have a recent version of MacOS, which has an acceptable version of Python 
on it.

## Installing Pip

Yes, I know, this is elementary stuff. Hey, I didn't have these steps memorized. I'm a Go programmer, not
a Python guru!

[Pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/) is the Python package manager. To install it, 
drop to the Terminal and run this command:

```bash
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o ~/Downloads/get-pip.py
```

Curl is technically a web browser. The command above gets a copy of the Python source for Pip
and copies it into your MacOS Downloads directory.

* Change to the Downloads directory:

```bash
cd ~/Downloads
```

## Install Pip using Python

* Run Python on the `get-pip.py` program to install Pip:

```bash
python ~/Downloads/get-pip.py --user
```

Pip warns darkly that Python 2.7 has a limited lifespan. You'll see
something like this:

```
DEPRECATION: Python 2.7 will reach the end of its life on January 1st, 2020. Please upgrade your Python as Python 2.7 won't be maintained after that date. A future version of pip will drop support for Python 2.7. More details about Python 2 support in pip, can be found at https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/development/release-process/#python-2-support
Collecting pip
  Downloading https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/00/b6/9cfa56b4081ad13874b0c6f96af8ce16cfbc1cb06bedf8e9164ce5551ec1/pip-19.3.1-py2.py3-none-any.whl (1.4MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 1.4MB 454kB/s 
Installing collected packages: pip
  WARNING: The scripts pip, pip2 and pip2.7 are installed in '/Users/tom/Library/Python/2.7/bin' which is not on PATH.
  Consider adding this directory to PATH or, if you prefer to suppress this warning, use --no-warn-script-location.
Successfully installed pip-19.3.1
```

## Add Python and Pip to the path

Let's get this on the path so you can just type `ranger` to start Ranger when the time comes.
We'll do this by making sure you can run Python scripts like an executable, without 
having to precede the name with `python`. That means appending the Pythong directory
to your `PATH` environment variable.


On MacOS you do this on `~/.bash_profile` instead of `~/.bashrc`, so this
differs from the Ranger docs.

### Edit ~/.bash_profile

* Fire up your favorite editor and load `~/.bash_profile`. Here's an example using Vim:

```bash
vim ~/.bash_profile 
```

* Add this to the bottom of the file:

```bash
export PATH="$PATH:~/Library/Python/2.7/bin"
```

### Run source to export those changes into your current environment

Normally the change you just made wouldn't be available unless you 
exited Terminal and opened up a new instance.

* Save some time by running `source` on the Bash profile you just created:

```bash
source ~/.bashrc
```

Now Pip will be available from the command line.

## Install Ranger

Finally, we can install Ranger itself:

```bash
pip install ranger-fm --user
```

And now you can run it from the command line anywhere on your system:

```bash
ranger
```

[Home](/)
